Akshay P Nambiar Email: akshay.nambiar7@gmail.in
Portfolio: akshaypn Mobile: +91-9521-279-646
Github: github.com/akshaypn
SUMMARY
3+ years of AI/ML software development experience in EdTech and InsurTech startups. Proficient in Large Language
Models, NLP, AI, and data analytics. Able to leverage cutting-edge technology and research to ideate and deliver
AI-driven solutions.
SKILLS SUMMARY
• Languages: Python,Unix & Shell Scripting, LATEX, SQL
• Tools & Frameworks: Numpy, Pandas, PyTorch, Transformers, Langchain, Scikit-Learn, Matplotlib, XGBoost, OpenCV,
Huggingface, Git, Pytest, NLTK, SpaCy, Flask, Kubernetes, Docker, GIT, Airflow, AWS, GCP,
• MLOps: Airbyte, Great Expectations, Weights & Biases, MLFlow, DVC, Sagemaker, Lambda, ECR, ECS, Docker, FastAPI, Streamlit,
Gradio, AirFlow,
• Technical Skills: Large Language Modelling, Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Model Deployment, Model APIs
• Soft Skills: Leadership, Planning and Management, Writing, Extempore, Time Management
WORK EXPERIENCE
•
Gigaforce Inc. Noida, India
Software Engineer AI/ML - (Full-time) Oct 2022 - present
◦ SubroGPT: Designed and curated a Custom Dataset using Falcon 40B for Subrogation Domain.Instruct fine-tuned an open
source LLM with 7B parameters using PEFT and LoRA to perform transfer learning. Applied it to several downstream tasks
like email generation, chain of thought answering, and context understanding.
◦ QA Retrieval Agent: Engineered a robust QA Retrieval agent by leveraging Langchain, FastChat5B, and ChromaDB Vector
Store. Analyzed accident descriptions and traffic laws to identify law infringements, streamlining liability determination
alongside SubroGPT. Increased claim closure rate by 500%
◦ Data Extraction from Police Report: Utilized openCV and Tesseract to identify and extract structured data from Police
Reports. This automated data extraction resulted in a decrease of claim processing time by 1 hour/report.
◦ Subro Potential Application: Created a production-ready application that could successfully analyze a claim and determine
its subrogation potential. Used TFiDF, NER, and sentence similarity to understand the data, gather features and trained on
historical data. Reduced the claim processing time from 100 claims/day to 10,000 claims/hour while increasing per
claim revenue by 40%. Used Dockers to deploy the application and Airflow for scheduling and monitoring. Daily
processing 1M+ documents to predict subrogation potential
◦ AI Enabled Claim Document Parser: Developed an Algorithm to identify patterns and extract data from an unseen pdf
while maintaining its structure. Went from POC to deployment in 1 month. This allowed streamlined text extraction resulting
in significant time reduction and huge savings for clients. 250K+ documents processed till date
◦ Impact: Successfully took several AI/ML projects from proof-of-concept to production. Developed and applied advanced
algorithms in the domain of subrogation opportunity identification, liability analysis, and text extraction leading to
increased subrogation efficiency and revenue for clients. Identified need for Airflow, WandB incorporation, set up and
managed airflow and WandB to automate, schedule, monitor, and debug AI applications and artifacts
◦ Recognition: Awarded certificate of recognition for outstanding contribution in the second quarter post-joining.
•
Lorraine Music Academy Pvt. Ltd. Gurugram, India
Data and Technology Engineer (Full-time) Dec 2020 - Oct 2022
◦ Audio Recognition Deep Learning Software: Engineered and optimized a deep learning model to analyze user-recorded
audio samples of piano performances, accurately assessing them and providing feedback. Deployed on a web application
using Python and EC2.
◦ Learning Management System Portal: Implemented a learning management system portal that onboarded all customers
and tracked their progress along with ZOOM video classes and recorded lectures. Deployed using AWS and EC2.
◦ Startup Fundamentals: Worked closed with the CEO and assisted in building Financial Models, Valuation Reports, and
Pitch Decks. Pitched to VCs in order to get funding. 2-time cohort member of the world’s 3rd biggest Startup
Accelerator, IITStartups USA.
EDUCATION
•
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Gandhinagar Gandhinagar, India
Bachelor of Technology July 2017 - June 2021
◦ Courses:: Advanced Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Networks and Complex Systems, Introduction to Game Development
AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS
• Achieved an All India Rank (AIR) 5953 (99.4 %ile) in JEE Advanced. Out of 1M+ candidates.
• Recipient of Explorer’s Fellowship.- from IIT Gandhinagar
EXTRA CURRICULAR
•
Intern, CMS Gandhinagar, India
Assisted Harvard alums in organizing a two day exhaustive seminar, FLY-(finding the leader in you) May 2018
•
Secretary, IITGN Badminton Team Gandhinagar, India
Ensured smooth functioning of the College Badminton Team. Apr’19-Apr’21